Hey welcome back.
Now that we've seen step one of this process where we select elements we saw a bunch of different methods
that we can use to select elements once we have them.
Once we have selected them we usually want to do something with them instead of just putting them in
variables for no reason or cancelled out logging them.
Typically we manipulate them in some way.
Manipulation is it's not exactly the best term because sometimes we are manipulating the elements.
We might be changing their styles.
We might be inserting a new element inside of them.
We might be removing that element.
But other times we're just accessing data and that's not I wouldn't call that manipulation.
We're just trying to figure out what is the contents of this div or what number did the user just click
on or what.
What information is in the form that is more accessing.
And we're also going to cover that in this section.
So manipulation is just the umbrella term.
The unfortunate thing about the dome is when you're learning it you take a look at any document and
or any element that you select.
There are so many properties so many methods as we've already seen a couple of times.
It definitely can be overwhelming.
But we're going to narrow it down to some of the most important methods and properties you need to know.
And these are the ones that nine more than nine times out of 10 probably I don't know.
Forty eight times out of 50 I guess I could reduce down.
Let's just say most of the time you end up using these methods.
These are the methods and properties that we use to style elements to create new elements to change
attributes to add a class to an element or remove a class.
There's so many different things that we do.
This subset of methods and properties what do we have like 18 maybe 20 this subset is the majority of
what you'll need to make most projects and to get by using the dump.
So in this section we're gonna just take these piece by piece.
We're gonna start in this video by talking about accessing text from an element.
How do we get the contents of an element.
So we're gonna focus on this corner here.
Enter text and text content.
All right.
So I'm working with the same dummy Web page.
It doesn't matter I'm just doing something simple but this applies to any any web page you could open.
We could do it on MDL and we could do it on Wikipedia on Facebook although I just wouldn't want to show
you my Facebook account but we could we open up the console or we run code from a script where we select
an element.
So why don't we start there.
Let's select this H1.
So how do we select it.
Document dot.
And we have a bunch of options but I'm going to do query selector.
There's only one H1 and I want the first one anyway.
So we'll do this we'll save it to a variable cost H1 and the first property we'll see is called inter
text so enter text is going to give me the text that is in between the tags right there.
So here's the opening H1 here's the closing inter text is this right there.
So that's how it behaves on a simple element like an H1.
But what if we have content nested inside.
Let's see if we have a good example of this scroll down.
We do have this.
Well if I were to run you l dot inter text.
Let's see what we get.
So I mean I select the UL with my query selector on UL there's only.
Well there's multiple actually.
So we'll just take the first one because all the wells have allies inside and then we'll call this variable.
Well so if I do you well that inter text here's what we get.
First thing second thing third thing.
So this was the well that we selected.
You can see it highlighted when I type you well and my console and the text that was located inside
of it was nested.
It's not a direct child of the well it's inside of an ally.
So we have carrots we have peas we have broccoli or actually we have first thing second thing and third
thing they're not directly located in the well they're first instead of an ally.
But when we use inner text on an element we get all of the text inside of it.
So we could also do this document dump body which is a reference to the entire body.
We don't have to do query selector of body although that should work if never done that before.
But I'm sure that does work.
Yeah but we have a shortcut which is just document our body.
It's a property that's always on the document.
And if I do enter text on that we get all of the text from my web page.
It doesn't matter how many elements deep it is if it's buried or nested down it extracts all the text.
So this is the text from my web page.
Now reading enter text is great.
That's useful sometimes.
But also we can change elements we can manipulate the text.
It's just another property on an object.
And if we change it the browser is going to update to reflect that.
So we have our each one dot enter text if I want to change it I can change it to how about I'm hungry
Let's do double quotes I'm hungry and there we go.
It updated.
Now this change obviously is in the console.
It's not permanent.
If I were to refresh my page it's gone.
I could add it to a script like I have over here and then it would run each time and I would see it
but it's kind of silly to update the entire text of an H1 as soon as the page loads.
Why not just update the HMO.
But that's where events come in where we can update something based off of an event.
User clicking a hover.
For now we're just learning the basics of changing elements.
So that's the basics of inter text.
If I were to do something like document body or any element let's do that you know you well dot in our
text.
Remember that the U.S. has nested content inside it has allies and this text is coming from the allies.
If I do you well don't enter text equals I am a big well and I hit enter all of that stuff is gone.
So what we had originally was this we had to do well with three allies when I changed in our text even
though the inner text we see is only this we're not seeing those elements when I set inner text on something
it just puts the text right there.
So not a great idea to do that if you're actually trying to preserve the content you had before but
we can use this when we're trying to update you know a heading or a caption or if we just know that
there's not content inside that we're going to lose.
Now there's also a second property we can use to access the inner text or the text content of an element
and that property is called text content.
So on the surface it seems exactly the same as inner text if we like the H1 again I'm going to scroll
up I refresh the page by the way.
So we lost the change when it said I'm hungry but if I look at each one dot enter text it's my web page
each one does text content which is the other property we're about to see.
We get the same thing.
So it seems like they both are identical.
I can set text content I'll change this to I am not hungry and an update.
OK.
Same as enter text.
But now let's work with this paragraph here.
This paragraph has an idea of Main and for some reason it's spaced really oddly.
Some of this stuff is on separate lines.
Let's say that I'm going to leave that I'll indent this here I'll add an extra return let's save I'll
format it oddly like this and I'm also going to add in a script tag not that you really should put a
script tag instead of a paragraph but I'm going to to illustrate something I'll put a console dot log
here.
Hello everyone and save.
So now we have our formatted HMO or our formatted text with some weird returns and indentation.
And then we have a script tag.
Let's refresh the page.
Let's select that paragraph.
Here's our constant log.
Hello everyone.
So we'll do a document that query selector of the idea of Maine.
We could also do get element by I.D. save this to a variable or call it p and let's look at p dot inner
text.
Okay.
So it's purely the text no formatting.
We don't get anything about that script.
It's just the text.
Now if we look at PDA text content.
Okay so it has the same text but it also has that spacing.
It knows about the returns we had in there.
It knows about this script text so it doesn't include the script element or the tags but the text in
there is considered text.
So that's probably not ideal.
Most of the time at least and we end up getting it all with text content so that is a significant difference.
Also if I had something that was hidden in this paragraph.
A good example would be if I added a bold tag maybe or a span or some other tag let's do a bold tag
around some of this content like that and then let's say for some reason I decide to do an inline style
just to make it easier.
I'll say display none so we should not see this phrase here.
Whatever percent Tim autumn autumn.
If I refresh it's gone we don't see it showing up here.
But if I run those same lines I select AP I look at Inter text.
It's not here.
Now if I do the same thing with text content it's right here.
Percent tiem Autumn.
Same thing with our console dot log.
So enter text is going to be aware of what is actually showing up on the page.
For example our script text does not show up.
Nobody sees this in the browser window unless they open up the inspector or the dev tools versus with
text content.
It doesn't care at all.
It just gives us the inner text of that element from the actual HDMI file.
It goes into this element and it just takes all the text and all the text it can find.
It cuts out those tags.
Cuts out the B tag.
So this and we get the text including the script text.
So I almost always use enter text.
It's good to know though that text content is faster.
Another one of those situations where it really doesn't matter but I feel like I should say it.
It's such a tiny difference.
Most of the time it would be imperceptible but the reason it's faster is because it doesn't have to
do any of this stuff where it calculates what's actually showing what's on the screen right now.
It just gives you everything it vomits it out so that's inner text and text content you can use both
of them to access the text but there are some differences as we saw and you can use either to update
the text within an element.
You just have to be careful if there's other stuff in there and you update it using either one you're
going to overwrite.
What was there before.
All right.
So those are two new properties inter text and text content.